# NFL_QBR
Analysis of Travel Distance on NFL Quarterback performance in the 2022 season

Player performance is almost always measured with stats in the scorebook. But what if there were unseen factors at play that affect those stats. Factors such as weather, injuries, etc. However one factor unfrequently considered is travel. The distance traveled by a visiting team and the uneasy nature of traveling as an athlete is what this project aims to analyze. Many professional athletes are creatures of habit, maybe non moreso than NFL Quarterbacks, so lets take a simple look at how these creatures deal with traveling. 

This project analyzes a small dataset collected by myself from a few different web sources that was integrated into a single excel workbook that I then performed tranformations and visualizations on. These web sources include wegrynenterprises.com for accurate travel distances for NFL teams, and NFL.com and pro-football_reference.com for player stats. This dataset is specifically pertaining to the 2022 NFL season and the quarterbacks with over 300 pass attempts (30). Each distance listed in the workbook is the distance from city to city, not actually stadium to stadium to keep the distances uniform. There are a few disclaimers for travel distance as well. There were 5 international NFL games played in countries other than the United States and they are as follows: Week 11 SF @ AZ in Mexico City, Week 10 SEA @ TB in Munich, Germany, and 3 contests in London- Week 4 MIN @ NO, Week 5 NYG @ GB, and Week 8 DEN @ JAX. Note that AZ quarterback Kyler Murray did not play in the Mexico City game, so his longest travel distance is reflected in a stateside game. Two other disclaimers: Week 11 CLE @ BUF was not played in Buffalo, NY but rather at a nuetral site in Detroit, MI due to inclement weather in Buffalo and Week 17 BUF @ CIN was canceled after 10 minutes due to the cardiac arrest of BUF cornerback Damar Hamlin so this game is not reflected in BUF quarterback Josh Allen's distances while the Week 11 game in Detroit is his shortest travel distance (~284 miles) even though it was a home game for Buffalo. This Week 11 neutral site game is also reflected in CLE quarterback Jacoby Brissett's shortest travel distance (~90 miles). 





